Hi guys we're back in the Elasticache dashboard.
And this time we're going to create a couple of redis clusters.
So what we're going to do is we're going to create one with cluster-mode enabled and one with cluster-mode
disabled so that you can understand the differences so let's click Create.
And our first cluster we're going to not enable the cluster-mode.
So it's going to be cluster-mode disabled so we'll come down here.
We'll give it a name.
We just call this one redis one and from the description I'm going to cluster mode disabled.
We then have the options for our engine our port and our parameter group.
I'm going to go in and choose a t2 micro.
And we now have the option for replicas.
So you can see that we can choose a number of replicas and you can have up to five.
So you can have between zero and five replicas.
Now the difference between the customer disabled and enabled is that when you click on cluster-mode enabled
you then get shards.
So you have shards and then you have replicas of shards.
So let's just head over to the diagram so we can remember what this is all about.
So you have shards with Elasticache redid and with cluster-mode disabled.
You have one shard.
You then have a primary node.
So this is the node that you're reading in your writing too and you then have your replicas and you
can have zero up to five replicas and they can be a cross Availability Zones and you can fail over to
a replica.
We have cluster mode enabled.
You then have multiple shards and each shard has a partition of data and each shard can have zero to
five replicas
so back in the console here let's just disable the cluster mode because we're doing a cluster mode disabled
first and let's just stick to two replicas.
And here we have multi AZ and auto failover.
So this means that we can enable high availability and failover to a read replica if our primary node
fails.
Now I'm going to leave the subnet group as it is.
You could then go and select your preferred availability zones so you could choose where your primary
goes.
And then you can choose where your replicas go.
So let's put those into separate Availability Zones you then have an option to enable encryption at
rest and in transit.
Now you can only do this at the point that you actually create the cluster so make sure you make the
right choices here.
That's what we need to configure.
So let's click Create and while that's happening let's go and create a cluster mode enabled cluster.
So for this one I'm going to call this red is two and the description is going to be a cluster mode
enabled.
And again we get to choose are no type.
I want to use t2 micro again.
And then we get to choose how many shards we want.
So let's just go with two shards each with two replicas.
You now have a few more options in how you can distribute your slots in key spaces so you can choose
a custom distribution you can specify your Availability Zones.
So you have the slots and key spaces thing
and slots in key spaces are beyond the scope of the solutions architect's exam.
They probably come up in the devops exam.
You can then choose your primary replica for each shard and choose where you want that to be.
Let's just leave it is no preference.
An equal distribution.
Again you get the option to enable encryption.
Remember this didn't come up with Memcached because you can't encrypt with Memcached.
And we then have the options for backups
let's click Create.
It's been a few minutes now and both of our clusters are available and we can see that one is mode redis
and the other is mode clustered red is.
Let's go into our cluster mode disabled cluster first and have a look.
So again there's a few options for modification.
We can come in here and we can change that no type.
We can change from multi AZ to on or off and we can change some of the information around backup and
maintenance windows and you can then go in and click the cluster name.
And here you can add two or more nodes so you can add an additional node choose the name for and this is
a read replica node and you can choose the availability zone.
You can also go into a primary node here and you can delete reboot and file over and you can also get
the endpoint.
You can see some cloud launch metrics below.
And if you select a replica in the list you can also go to actions and click promote.
So let's try promoting a replica and we'll apply this immediately
so it says you cannot manually promote a new master cache cluster while also failover is enabled so
when you have automatic fail over enabled you're not able to manually failover let's try another way.
Let's go to the primary node and choose failover primary and if we head down to events now we can
see test fail over API called the node group travels 0 1.
Let's go back and have a look and see if it's changed the node and it took a few seconds but now we
can see that red is one dash 0 0.
Is the new primary.
So that works.
So you can't promote a replica when you have the failover enabled but you can failover a primary.
Let's go back now and have a look at our clustered radius.
So this is the one with cluster mode enabled
and with this we have two shards each with three nodes.
So we have six nodes in total.
So let's head in and have a look at the nodes
so here you see the shards and if you click on a shard then you get to see the nodes
and we can click back up here and then you can go into the other shard and options here are you can
failover the primary
and you can copy node endpoints and delete the nodes.
That's all you can do.
You can also come in and add a node and again you're adding certain number of replicas so let's go back
up to the cluster level and just have a look at the cluster configuration so just like with the other
read this option you have a couple of options in here for your security groups, your parameter groups,
your backups, and then your windows for maintenance and backup.
And that's really it.
So that's it.
For Redis the key thing really is to know the differences between memcacheD and then the two
redis modes.
So redis with cluster mode disabled and redis with cluster mode enabled.
And then understand the use cases for elasticache which are really things like session state for non
persistent data and then in some cases for persistent data where you need very low latency and high
performance.
So what we're going to do now is delete these clusters and we can just select the option to
not to create a final backup
and that's both of our clusters being deleted.